# Boot-camp
## Fundamentals 1
# Day Two

---

So… Object Orientation makes your code good?

Note: Danger of thinking OO == good code

---

# Objects make sense in the real world

Note: Think in terms of objects  
Very natural

---

# Sometimes less so in software

Note: e.g. Car, Advert, Customer    
Real life things  
OOP attempts to model the tangible real world  
Technology (DB/events etc) often not tangible

---

## There are some principles to help!

Note: Many principles in software  
Explain principles vs practices  
Usually hold true across most examples  
Not always easy to apply  

---

## Single Responsibility Principle

Putting the ‘S’ in S.O.L.I.D.

Note: Actually five principles:  
  Single Responsibility  
  Open / Closed Principle  
  Liskov Substitution Principal  
  Interface Segregation  
  Dependency Injection

---

“every module or class should have responsibility over a single part of the functionality provided by the software, and that responsibility should be entirely encapsulated by the class.”  
—[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_responsibility_principle) 

Note: every module or class should have responsibility over a single part of the functionality provided by the software, and that responsibility should be entirely encapsulated by the class

---

# Robert C Martin

(Uncle Bob)

Note:
  Term introduced by Robert C Martin / Uncle Bob  
  Co-author of the Agile Manifesto  
  Also introduced ‘Clean Code’ term  
  Position these contributions  

---

“A class should have only one reason to change.”  
—Robert C Martin in ‘Agile Software Development, Principles, Patterns, and Practices’

---

# Good code is organised

Organisation more important as code base grows

Note: Discuss importance with 50k+ LOC across thousands of classes  
  Can’t have order if unclear where to put things  
  Broken window theory  

---

# Cohesion

“degree to which the elements inside a module belong together.”  
—Edward Yourdon & Larry L. Constantine in ‘Structured Design: Fundamentals of a Discipline of Computer Program and Systems Design’

Note: Cohesion is a good quality  
  Code highly cohesive when single responsibility described in one place

---

# Classic Examples

Shout them out

-[+] Gaffa tape: stops things moving
-[+] Hammer: hammers things
-[+] Mug: holds liquid

---

# Classic Counter-Examples

-[+] Food processor: chops, mixes, whips, grates, slices
-[+] Swiss army knife: cuts, screws, unpicks, de-corks
-[+] Spork: cuts, spoons

---

# Consider Fizz Buzz…

How many responsibilities?

Note: Hard to say  
  Not cut and dry

---

# Responsibility is hard

It’s not always black and white

Note: There’s more than one correct answer

---

<backgroundimage>{{ site.github.url }}/images/car-diagram.jpg</backgroundimage>
<backgroundimageopacity>0.25</backgroundimageopacity>


# What about a car?

Is it one responsiblity or more?

-[+] Engine
-[+] Wheels
-[+] Indicators
-[+] Dashboard
-[+] Wipers
-[+] Radio
-[+] Seats
-[+] …

---

# Functional Decomposition

“… the process of taking a complex process and breaking it down into its smaller, simpler parts.”  
—[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/947874/what-is-functional-decomposition)

Note: FD critical skill when designing systems
  Decisions about responsibility solidify  
  Microservices based around brave decisions about responsibility boundaries  

---

# How deep?

You can keep decomposing the functions into smaller components:

- Car
  - Dashboard
    - Speed indicator
      - Speedometer
        - Magnet
          - Atoms

---

# Keep it sensible

Don’t decompose too far.

---

# 🙅‍

Trading off cohesion and reduced responsibility

Note: When responsibility too small you lose cohesion  
  May need to perform shotgun surgery across many components to make a single change

---

# Aim for sensible outcomes

When requirements change, should have one change to make

Note: E.g. choice of using set or list
  Should be able to swap out in one place  
  This is the thing that is responsible for storing that thing  

---

# Abstraction

(not the OO principle)

Stay at one level of abstraction within a component

Note: Don’t describe a bathroom as a toilet, a bath and a flow control valve—you call it a tap. 

---

# General rules

Stuff inside a class should change together

Stuff outside a class should change independently

Note: We want to make changes carefully  
  Working in small areas allows us to be more organised  
  Allows us to be more methodical and have less context  
  Two bits of code that change together, live together  

---

# Negative Indicators

Visual signs that a class might have multiple responsibilities:

-[+] It’s massive
-[+] Multiple constructors
-[+] Name doesn’t match contents
-[+] Name is confusing/too generic
-[+] People are scared to change it

Note: Generally classes grow as extra responsibility creeps in  
  Classes generally need one set of collaborators  
  Bad names are like a bad foundation  
  Multiple responsibilities can cause surprises when changing things  

---

# Checkout Kata

[Checkout kata](http://codekata.com/kata/kata09-back-to-the-checkout/)

```plain
  Item   Unit      Special
         Price     Price
  --------------------------
    A     50       3 for 130
    B     30       2 for 45
    C     20
    D     15
```

Note: Kata requires code to handle running total and offers  
  This is all done (badly)

---

# Exercise (20 mins)

* Split into groups
* Clone https://github.com/autotraderuk/md-apprentice-boot-camp-fundamentals-1
* Make some changes:
  -[+] Change it so that you can have 4 ‘C’ for 70
  -[+] Change it so that you can have 5 ‘D’ for 60
  -[+] Change it so that you can have 4 ‘A’ for 180

Note: Do changes one by one as you don't want them to know that ‘A’ will change

---

# Exercise (10 mins)

* Discuss our crude Checkout implementation
* Write three sets of post-its:
  - What responsibility does Checkout have?
  - How could you split it up?
  - What problems does/will this design face?

---

# Review post-its

## What responsibility does Checkout have?

-[+] Pricing
-[+] Tracking running total
-[+] Reductions

Note: Would you also add receipt functionality?  

---

# Review post-its

## How could you split it up?

Note: May need to prompt: Scanner, Receipt, Item, Discount Rule  

---

# Review post-its

## What problems will this design face?

Note: Was it readable?  
  Was it clear where to add new functionality?  
  Ask if they had to change original tests  
  Point out original tests still valid and shouldn’t have changed  
  Highlight that rules are a separate responsibility  

---

# Exercise (30 mins)

Change it so that receipt groups similar items?  
Improve the design by separating responsibility?

---

## DRY
(1 hour)

AKA Don’t Repeat Yourself
AKA Duplication / Repetition

Note: DRY is a principle telling us to avoid duplication in code  

---

“Every piece of knowledge must have a single, unambiguous, authoritative representation within a system.”
	-- The Pragmatic Programmer


---

# Duplication can be…

-[+] The exact same code in more than one place
-[+] Almost identical code in more than one place
-[+] The same String / Number in more than one place
-[+] Conditionals (ifs) using the same value in multiple places
-[+] Code represents knowledge—**repeated knowledge is duplication**

---

# Duplication is (usually) bad

It makes it hard to change code safely

-[+] Have to change tests in more than one place
-[+] Worse… you probably don’t have test coverage
-[+] May not realise you have to change something in many places

Note: Sometimes okay temporarily…  
  because in progress of refactoring  
  getting something working before you understand it  
  in tests?  

---

# Removing duplication can introduce coupling

Takes careful design to reduce duplication while avoiding coupling

---

# Can inheritance help?

-[+] Usually no
-[+] Certainly not until you have learned when not to
-[+] Inheritance by nature is highly coupled
-[+] Overuse is counter-productive to SOLID principles

Note: Discuss Inheritance vs. Composition (Boot camp 3)  
  Danger of Inheritance for code re-use  

---

# How to fix?

-[+] Values are easy
  -[+] Extract variable/field/constant
  -[+] Use caution not to break encapsulation/introduce coupling
  -[+] Sometimes duplicated values hide shared behaviour

---

# Continued…

-[+] De-duplicate behaviour by extracting and centralising methods
  -[+] Extract one method
  -[+] Move method to the correct location
    -[+] Might involve creating previously missing class
  -[+] Introduce parameters to facilitate other usages

---

# Alert: Some duplication is worse…

Duplication gets worse with distance

Note: Duplication better when code is cohesive  
  When code further apart hard to spot code that needs to change together 

---

# Why does duplication happen?

-[+] Copy & paste
-[+] Accidental duplication
-[+] Comments
-[+] Test names
-[+] Independent invention
-[+] Impatience

Note: It is usually unintentional  

---

# Exercise (45 mins)

Make the following changes, ensuring the Receipt is correct
Try to make each change before removing duplication

-[+] Change it so that you can have 5 ‘A’ for 220
-[+] Change it so that you can have 4 ‘C’ for 70
-[+] Change it so that you can have 5 ‘D’ for 60
-[+] ‘A’ = Apple, ‘B’ = Banana, ‘C’ = Cherry, ‘D’ = Damson
-[+] Drought! Bananas double in price, no longer on offer

Note: In this case it is intentional  
  Reveal requirements as people reach them

---

# Show and tell

-[+] What made making these changes hard?
-[+] How did you remove the duplication?
-[+] Did you introduce any more duplication?

Note: Duplication of names, costs, discounts (between checkout and receipt, and within receipt), formatting (newline/discount layout)
  Interface between Checkout and Receipt includes item name    
  Solution may include Item class, Discounts class, print discount method   

---

# Duplicated Names

<insert code>

---

# Duplicated Costs

<insert code>

---

# Duplicated Discount Logic

<insert code>

---

# Duplicated Formatting

<insert code>

---

# Tests
Bad but not duplication

Note: Mention that tests are declarative, explain declarative

---

## Retro/stand-up

---

## Red Green Refactor
(1 hour)

* Why do we write tests
* Why do we write tests first
* Why people might not write tests first
* Mention levels of testing (only covering unit testing in this boot camp)
* Arrange act assert?
* Introduce red green refactor and discuss why
  * Short feedback loops
  * Reduced context
  * Refactoring to make code betterer
* Show them the process (find a video or create some slides or do it live)

* Implement something like bowling kata or roman numerals kata (1 hour)
* Reflect on exercise
  * What did you like
  * What was hard

* Do the checkout kata with red green refactor (1 hour)

---

## Retro/stand-up

---

## Day two quiz