## Boot Camp Aims

+ Give you a deeper appreciation for what Object Orientation is
+ Practice writing code

--

#### Competencies we aim to cover

+ TC1: Logic
  * Writes good quality code (logic) with sound syntax in at least one language.
+ TC6: Design
  * Can create simple data models and software designs to effectively communicate understanding of the program, following best practices and standards
+ TC10: Applying Good Practice
  * Can apply good practice approaches according to the relevant paradigm (for example object-oriented, event driven or procedural)

Note: You’ll switch to the new standard when it is available, which describes different competencies covering the knowledge skills and behaviours, but this is still relevant to the new standard.  

--

### TC1: Logic

#### Assessed Requirements

Apprentices can write code to achieve the desired functionality and which is easy to read and understand, with good naming, indentation and commenting, and applying the fundamentals of good coding:
* development paradigms (***where this is object-oriented programming this must include inheritance, abstractions, encapsulation, polymorphism***)
* software programming languages
* …

Note: There is more but none of it is relevant to this boot camp

--

### TC1: What do you need to know?

* ***Designs moderately complex programs and program modifications from supplied specifications***, using agreed standards and tools, to achieve a ***well-engineered result***.
* Creates, amends and keeps track of moderately complex programs in accordance with the design.
* ***Documents all work in accordance with agreed standards.***
* Takes part in reviews of own work.
* Takes part in reviews of the work of colleagues.

--

### TC6: Design

#### Assessed Requirements

* take a high-level design and can interpret and convert the design in to ***simple data models and/or program modules*** to communicate it to others
* ***apply software design methodologies (e.g. structured or object-oriented)***
* ***use standard design notation such as UML***
* apply data modelling
* reconcile design against analysis models
* ***design software solutions to meet requirements***

--

### TC6: What do you need to know?

* ***Designs moderately complex programs and program modifications from supplied specifications***, using agreed standards and tools, to achieve a ***well-engineered result***.
* Designs simple applications using templates and tools to specify user/system interfaces, including for example: menus, screen dialogues, wireframes, boned rigs, inputs, reports, validation and error correction procedures, and processing rules.
* …

--

### TC6: What do you need to know? (continued)

* Assists as part of a team on design of software components of larger systems.
* Produces components of detailed designs, such as: physical data flows, ***class diagrams***, file layouts, common routines and utilities, program specifications or prototypes, and backup, recovery and restart procedures.
* Documents all work using required standards, methods and tools, including prototyping tools where appropriate.

--

### TC10: Applying Good Practice

#### Assessed Requirements

Apprentices can identify and follow standards and good practice that can improve programming efficiency, style and quality, including:

* programming standards, both organisational and external
* generic best practices, including readability, reusability, maintainability
* best practice approaches of different paradigms and languages

--

### TC10: What do you need to know?

* Designs moderately complex programs and program modifications from supplied specifications, using ***agreed standards and tools***, to achieve a ***well-engineered result***
* Documents all work in accordance with agreed standards
* Conducts reviews of supplied specifications, with others as appropriate
* ***Takes part in reviews of own work***
* ***Takes part in reviews of the work of colleagues***

--

### Day One

* A brief intro to Version Control
* Object Orientation
  * Background
  * What is an object?
  * Lunch?
  * Encapsulation
  * Abstraction

--

### Day Two

* Object Orientation (continued)
  * Inheritance
  * Polymorphism
* Best Practice
  * Single Responsibility Principle