# Boot-camp
## Fundamentals 1

---

## Tutor Intro

Note:
  Who are you and why are you here.  
  Some points to cover:  
  Your programming experience.  
  Your teaching experience or lack thereof.  

--

## How to boot camp (remotely)

+ Relatively new format for us
+ Setting expectations
    + What to expect from us
    + What we expect from you

--

## We want to hear from you

+ Don’t make us feel like [Professor Orth](https://www.msn.com/en-us/lifestyle/lifestyle-buzz/he-is-geppetto-73-year-old-unc-law-professor-goes-viral-after-recording-a-video-lecture-with-a-pinocchio-doll-sitting-in-the-front-row-because-he-didnt-want-to-teach-an-empty-class/ar-BB11E8UU)
+ Being remote makes it hard to check you are following
+ We’ll try to ask you questions to gauge understanding 

<backgroundimage>https://i.dailymail.co.uk/1s/2020/03/24/16/26350870-8147627-image-m-3_1585067358247.jpg</backgroundimage>
<backgroundimageopacity>0.5</backgroundimageopacity>

Note: We miss doing this in person.  
  Much more engaging for all of us if it is two-way.

--

## Please interact with us

+ Have your camera on
+ Leave yourself muted unless you have something to say
+ Please feel free to ask a question verbally
+ You don’t need to raise your hand, but if you do we will try to notice and pause so you can talk
+ Hold down spacebar to temporarily unmute like a walkie-talkie
+ If you don’t want to speak up, ask in the #fundamentals-1-bootcamp Slack channel

Note: We prefer Slack as the messages will last a little longer  
If the question requires a detailed response  
If we don’t respond within a minute or so, we haven’t noticed

--

<backgroundimage>{{ "/images/distraction.webp" | absolute_url }}</backgroundimage>
<backgroundimageopacity>1</backgroundimageopacity>

Note: You’ll get the most out of this if you stay present.  
Plenty of sources of distractions.  
Think of yourselves as out of office.

--

## Be present

+ Mute your notifications
    + Slack: `/dnd 8 hours` and `/status In training session`
    + macOS: choose ‘Do Not Disturb’ from ‘Control Centre’ on the menu bar
+ Put your phone in DND and put it out of reach
+ You don’t have to take notes
+ Ask questions
+ Use headphones
+ We have done the same

--

### Delivery

+ Same structure both days
+ Won't go longer than 1 hour without a break
+ Emphasis on exercises rather than slides
  + Mentors will help you with exercises
+ Interactive
+ Lunch 12:30–13:30
+ Finish around 16:30

Note: Emphasise importance of breaks

--

### Day One

* A brief intro to Version Control
* Object Orientation
    * Background
    * What is an object?
    * Lunch?
    * Encapsulation
    * Abstraction

--

### Day Two

* Object Orientation (continued)
    * Inheritance
    * Polymorphism
* Best Practice
    * Single Responsibility Principle
